docs/install.md, before:

# ads-b scanner build

## Parts List
* Raspberry Pi 3B or 3B+. This was built using a 3B, but should work on a 3B+.
* 16GB or 32GB Class 10 Micro SD card.  The OS & software uses < 2GB, but you'll want space for the ads-b logs.
* AdaFruit PiTFT Plus 320x240 2.8" TFT, Model 2298.  Has 4 built-in buttons.
  https://www.adafruit.com/product/2298
* One RTL-SDR (__NooElec NESDR Smart__ or __RTL-SDR Blog R820T2 RTL2832U__)
* Power supply with enough current for the Pi, TFT, and RTL-SDR.  I use a 3.0A power supply. 
* Recommended:
  * Case: https://www.adafruit.com/product/2253
  * Faceplate: https://www.adafruit.com/product/2807

## Install Raspbian
1.	Download Raspbian Buster lite.
2.	Format SD card.  Use the __SD Memory Card Formatter__ from the SD Association.
3.	Write the Raspbian image to SD card.
4.	Enabling wifi: Paste the config below into a file called __wpa_supplicant.conf__. Put your SSID and passphrase into __ssid__ and __psk__, then save the file to the root of the SD card __boot__ volume.

    *Do not use Notepad or Wordpad which will add CRLFs and cause problems. Use a code editor like Notepad++.*

    ```
    ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
    update_config=1
    country=US

    network={
     ssid="your-ssid"
     psk="your-passphrase"
    }
    ```

5.	Create an empty file named __ssh__ in the root of the SD card __boot__ volume to enable the SSH interface.
6.	Boot the Pi with the SD card, and locate its IP address using your router.

## Configure Raspbian
1.	SSH into the pi (username: pi, password: raspberry)
2.	`sudo raspi-config`
3.	__Change User Password__
4.  __Network Options -> Hostname__
5.	__Localisation Options -> Change Locale -> en_US.UTF-8 UTF-8__, then __en_US.UTF-8__
6.	__Localisation Options -> Change Timezone__
7.	__Advanced Options -> Expand Filesystem__
8.	Finish and reboot.
9.  Log in and update the OS:
    ```
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get -y upgrade --fix-missing
    sudo reboot
    ```

## Install Adafruit TFT display drivers
```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/Raspberry-Pi-Installer-Scripts/master/adafruit-pitft.sh
chmod +x adafruit-pitft.sh
sudo ./adafruit-pitft.sh		[Choose 2.8" 240x320; 90 degrees rotation; yes for console to appear on display; yes to reboot]
```
References:

https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-pitft-3-dot-5-touch-screen-for-raspberry-pi/easy-install-2

## Install dump1090-fa
```
wget https://flightaware.com/adsb/piaware/files/packages/pool/piaware/p/piaware-support/piaware-repository_3.8.0_all.deb
sudo dpkg -i piaware-repository_3.8.0_all.deb
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y dump1090-fa
sudo reboot
```
References:

https://flightaware.com/adsb/piaware/install

https://discussions.flightaware.com/t/piaware-v-3-7-1-on-debian-10-0-buster-amd64-intel-pc/52414

## Install Python packages
```
sudo apt install python3-rpi.gpio
sudo apt-get install python3-pygame
sudo apt install python3-pip
sudo pip3 install twython
```

## The Latitude & Longitude File
The ads-b scanner requires the latitude and longitude of the scanner's location. This enables calculation of the distance and bearing of aircraft relative to the scanner.

Create a file (*not using Notepad or Wordpad*) called __home-lat-lon.txt__ containing 2 separate lines:

```
xx.xxxxxx
yy.yyyyyy
```
where xx.xxxxxx is your latitude (N) and yy.yyyyyy is your  longitude (W) in decimal degrees. Save this file for the __Application Install__ step.

The scanner also maintains a default latitude and longitude if  __home-lat-lon.txt__ can't be read.  You can change these coordinates in __getHomeLatLon()__ in util.py.

## The Twitter API Keys
The ads-b scanner can optionally tweet callsigns and stats to your Twitter account.  Create a file (*not using Notepad or Wordpad*) called __auth.py__ with this format:
```
consumer_key = ''
consumer_secret = ''
access_token = ''
access_token_secret = ''
```
Substitute your Twitter API keys. If you don't want the Twitter function, then use the above format as-is (no keys) and leave the Tweet option disabled when the ads-b scanner starts.

Save this file for the __Application Install__ step.

## Application Install
```
cd ~
mkdir adsb-scanner
```
Copy these files to the adsb-scanner directory:
* all .py files
* all .png files
* start.sh
* home-lat-lon.txt
* auth.py

Append this snippet to .bashrc in the pi home folder.  This will cause the ads-b scanner to start upon boot, but not when you start a SSH session.
```
cd ~/adsb-scanner
if [ -n "$SSH_CLIENT" ]; then
  echo "Remote login detected"
else
  echo "Starting ads-b scanner"
  ./start.sh > debug.log 2>&1
fi
```
Grant full permissions to the application:
```
chmod 777 adsb-scanner
chmod 777 adsb-scanner/*
sudo reboot
```

Commit message:

use rPi Imager and other small updates

docs/install.md, after:

# ads-b scanner build

## Parts List
* Raspberry Pi 3B or 3B+. This was built using a 3B, but should work on a 3B+.
* 16GB or 32GB Class 10 Micro SD card.  The OS & software uses < 2GB, but you'll want space for the ads-b logs.
* AdaFruit PiTFT Plus 320x240 2.8" TFT, Model 2298.  Has 4 built-in buttons.
  https://www.adafruit.com/product/2298
* One RTL-SDR (__NooElec NESDR Smart__ or __RTL-SDR Blog R820T2 RTL2832U__)
* Power supply with enough current for the Pi, TFT, and RTL-SDR.  I use a 3.0A power supply. 
* Recommended:
  * Case: https://www.adafruit.com/product/2253
  * Faceplate: https://www.adafruit.com/product/2807

## Install Raspberry Pi OS
1.	Install the __Raspberry Pi Imager__.
2.  Use the Imager to format the SD card.
3.  Use the Imager to install __RASPBERRY PI OS LITE__
4.  On Windows: remove and re-insert the SD card to re-mount it.
5.	Enabling wifi: Paste the config below into a file called __wpa_supplicant.conf__. Put your SSID and passphrase into __ssid__ and __psk__, then save the file to the root of the SD card __boot__ volume.

    *Do not use Notepad or Wordpad which will add CRLFs and cause problems. Use a code editor like Notepad++.*

    ```
    ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
    update_config=1
    country=US

    network={
     ssid="your-ssid"
     psk="your-passphrase"
    }
    ```

5.	Create an empty file named __ssh__ in the root of the SD card __boot__ volume to enable the SSH interface.
6.  Attach the display to the Pi and plug in the USB Software Defined Radio.
7.	Boot the Pi with the SD card, and locate its IP address using your router.  The display will be white; this is normal and will be fixed later.

## Configure Raspberry Pi OS
1.	SSH into the pi (username: pi, password: raspberry)
2.	`sudo raspi-config`
3.	__Change User Password__
4.  __Network Options -> Hostname__
5.	__Localisation Options -> Change Locale -> en_US.UTF-8 UTF-8__, then __en_US.UTF-8__
6.	__Localisation Options -> Change Timezone__
7.	__Advanced Options -> Expand Filesystem__
8.	Finish and reboot.
9.  Log in and update the OS:
    ```
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get -y upgrade --fix-missing
    sudo reboot
    ```

## Install Adafruit TFT display drivers
```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/Raspberry-Pi-Installer-Scripts/master/adafruit-pitft.sh
chmod +x adafruit-pitft.sh
sudo ./adafruit-pitft.sh		
```
Then choose these options:
- 2.8" 240x320
- 90 degrees rotation
- yes for console to appear on display
- yes to reboot

References:

https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-pitft-3-dot-5-touch-screen-for-raspberry-pi/easy-install-2

## Install dump1090-fa
```
wget https://flightaware.com/adsb/piaware/files/packages/pool/piaware/p/piaware-support/piaware-repository_3.8.0_all.deb
sudo dpkg -i piaware-repository_3.8.0_all.deb
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y dump1090-fa
sudo reboot
```
References:

https://flightaware.com/adsb/piaware/install

https://discussions.flightaware.com/t/piaware-v-3-7-1-on-debian-10-0-buster-amd64-intel-pc/52414

## Install Python packages
```
sudo apt install python3-rpi.gpio
sudo apt-get install -y python3-pygame
sudo apt install -y python3-pip
sudo pip3 install twython
```

## The Latitude & Longitude File
The ads-b scanner requires the latitude and longitude of the scanner's location. This enables calculation of the distance and bearing of aircraft relative to the scanner.

Create a file (*not using Notepad or Wordpad*) called __home-lat-lon.txt__ containing 2 separate lines:

```
xx.xxxxxx
yy.yyyyyy
```
where xx.xxxxxx is your latitude (N) and yy.yyyyyy is your  longitude (W) in decimal degrees. Save this file for the __Application Install__ step.

The scanner also maintains a default latitude and longitude if  __home-lat-lon.txt__ can't be read.  You can change these coordinates in __getHomeLatLon()__ in util.py.

## The Twitter API Keys
The ads-b scanner can optionally tweet callsigns and stats to your Twitter account.  Create a file (*not using Notepad or Wordpad*) called __auth.py__ with this format:
```
consumer_key = ''
consumer_secret = ''
access_token = ''
access_token_secret = ''
```
Substitute your Twitter API keys. If you don't want the Twitter function, then use the above format as-is (no keys) and leave the Tweet option disabled when the ads-b scanner starts.

Save this file for the __Application Install__ step.

## Application Install
```
cd ~
mkdir adsb-scanner
```
Copy these files to the adsb-scanner directory:
* all .py files
* all .png files
* start.sh
* home-lat-lon.txt
* auth.py

Append this snippet to .bashrc in the pi home folder.  This will cause the ads-b scanner to start upon boot, but not when you start a SSH session.
```
cd ~/adsb-scanner
if [ -n "$SSH_CLIENT" ]; then
  echo "Remote login detected"
else
  echo "Starting ads-b scanner"
  ./start.sh > debug.log 2>&1
fi
```
Grant full permissions to the application:
```
chmod 777 adsb-scanner
chmod 777 adsb-scanner/*
sudo reboot
```

You're done!  The ads-b scanner will start automatically upon rebooting.
